---
title : Ruboto 0.9.0
layout: post
category: news
---
Ruboto (JRuby on Android) is a platform for developing full stand-alone apps for
Android using the Ruby language and libraries.  It includes support libraries
and generators for creating projects, classes, tests, and more.  The complete
APIs of Android, Java, and Ruby is available to you using the Ruby language.

New in version 0.9.0:

This release introduces the ability for Ruby classes to directly subclass Java classes.

You need JRuby 1.7.0 or later included in your project. Generate your project with
the ```--with-jruby``` option, or include JRuby in an existing Ruboto project with the
```ruboto gen jruby``` command.

An updated RubotoCore package based on JRuby 1.7 will be released later this year.

Features:

* Issue #250 Allow Ruby classes to subclass Java classes
* Issue #255 Remove "ruboto_generate" in favor of direct subclassing of Java classes.
* Issue #257 Stop support for updating projects with Android SDK 13 and older directly
* Issue #272 Add --force option to "ruboto gen app"
* Issue #274 * app name must be capitalized, so force it.

Bugfixes:

* Issue #251 Fails to load app named like org.ruboto.examples.app1
* Issue #265 Stored test app fixture must handle different bundles

Internal:

* Issue #171 Update test project using the --subprojects parameter

Support:

* Issue #152 ANT fails on Windows
* Issue #267 Avoid Users having to install Ruboto-Core apk
* Issue #269 No documentation on how to create a notification in Ruboto

Pull requests:

* Issue #263 Edited ruboto.rake to check for Window host_os
* Issue #270 Fail to compile when Jruby JARs are included
* Issue #271 'net/http' is missing
* Issue #275 * app name must be capitalized, so force it.

You can find a complete list of issues here:

* https://github.com/ruboto/ruboto/issues?state=closed&milestone=15


Installation:

To use Ruboto, you need to install a Java JDK, the Android SDK, Apache ANT, and a Ruby implementation.  Then do (possibly as root)

    gem install ruboto


To create a project do

    ruboto gen app --package <your.package.name>


You can find an introductory tutorial at https://github.com/ruboto/ruboto/wiki/Getting-started-with-Ruboto

If you have any problems or questions, come see us at http://ruboto.org/

Enjoy!


--
The Ruboto Team
http://ruboto.org/
