---
title : Ruboto 0.10.2
layout: post
category: news
---
Subject: [ANN] Ruboto 0.10.2 released!

The Ruboto team is proud to announce the release of Ruboto 0.10.2.

Ruboto (JRuby on Android) is a platform for developing full stand-alone apps for
Android using the Ruby language and libraries.  It includes support libraries
and generators for creating projects, classes, tests, and more.  The complete
APIs of Android, Java, and Ruby are available to you using the Ruby language.

New in version 0.10.2:

In this release we update to JRuby 1.7.3 and improve the integration with the Android tooling.  Also, we have started a matrix build at Travis CI to hopefully ensure compatibility with more devices.

Features:

* Issue #334 Allow setting color values using a hexadecimal literal like 0xFFB90706
* Issue #346 Automatically increase heap size used by the dx tool to 2560M
* Issue #354 Install Java versions of gems when using MRI or Rubinius
* Issue #365 Start appropriate emulator with "rake emulator"

Bugfixes:

* Issue #335 Package of Ruoboto-Core 0.5.0 doesnt work in Play-Store for Android 2.3.5
* Issue #338 Using $LOAD_PATH and __FILE__ etc ???
* Issue #352 Allow use of deprecated methods in generated Java classes
* Issue #355 Fix JRuby built-in JSON support
* Issue #357 onCreate method on Ruboto activities should work

Internal:

* Issue #363 Integrate with Travis CI

Support:

* Issue #306 rake publish not using $RUBOTO_KEYSTORE
* Issue #316 rake install often gets stuck on Installing...
* Issue #322 on_create called on rotate, erasing data
* Issue #356 Project fails to compile when jruby-jars is included.
* Issue #360 error when creating a project

Documentation:

* Issue #347 Write a tutorial for adding a startup splash

Pull requests:

* Issue #362 installing ruboto on ubuntu 12.04

You can find a complete list of issues here:

* https://github.com/ruboto/ruboto/issues?state=closed&milestone=20


Installation:

To use Ruboto, you need to install a Java JDK, the Android SDK, Apache ANT, and a Ruby implementation.  Then do (possibly as root)

    gem install ruboto


To create a project do

    ruboto gen app --package <your.package.name>


You can find an introductory tutorial at https://github.com/ruboto/ruboto/wiki

If you have any problems or questions, come see us at http://ruboto.org/

Enjoy!


--
The Ruboto Team
http://ruboto.org/
