---
title : Ruboto 0.12.0
layout: post
---
Subject: [ANN] Ruboto 0.12.0 released!

The Ruboto team is pleased to announce the release of Ruboto 0.12.0.

Ruboto (JRuby on Android) is a platform for developing full standalone apps for
Android using the Ruby language and libraries.  It includes support libraries
and generators for creating projects, classes, tests, and more.  The complete
APIs of Android, Java, and Ruby are available to you using the Ruby language.

New in version 0.12.0:

In this release we add the "ruboto setup" command and remove support for Android
older than 2.3.3 and JRuby older than 1.7.0.  "ruboto setup" will warn about
missing components in your development environment and will offer to install them.
If your platform is not supported, please let us know.

The ad hoc platform installation has been improved some.  More work can be done.
Contributors welcome!

The RubotoCore downloads have been moved to http://ruboto.org/downloads .

Features:

* Issue #182 Remove support for Android 2.1, api level android-7
* Issue #224 More automated installation of RubotoCore
* Issue #305 Drop support for JRuby 1.6.x
* Issue #341 Add "ruboto setup" to install JVM, ANT, and Android SDK
* Issue #364 Remove support for Android 2.2, api level android-8
* Issue #395 Display initial progress dialog while activity script is loading.
* Issue #403 Move downloads to http://ruboto.org/downloads

Bugfixes:

* Issue #345 rake update_scripts error
* Issue #397 Rake install doesn't work for certain paths

Support:

* Issue #382 An exception during activity initialisation should show the exception, not the download screen.
* Issue #385 Can't Subclass Java Activity Class for Entry Point
* Issue #396 Audio files that are all digits cause a rake crash

Pull requests:

* Issue #399 Change references to APK_FILE in rake install task.
* Issue #401 ruboto.rb file link updated. The old one returned a 404 error.
* Issue #402 * Remove support for JRuby 1.6.x
* Issue #404 * Issue #224 Smoother RubotoCore installation

Other:

* Issue #343 Need to make sure we don't overwrite user customization on "ruboto update app"
* Issue #383 Activity Bundle Doesn't Reach Java

You can find a complete list of issues here:

* https://github.com/ruboto/ruboto/issues?state=closed&milestone=23


Installation:

To use Ruboto, you need to install a Ruby implementation.  Then do (possibly as root)

    gem install ruboto
    ruboto setup

To create a project do

    ruboto gen app --package <your.package.name>
    cd <project directory>
    ruboto setup

To run an emulator for your project

    cd <project directory>
    rake emulator

To run your project

    cd <project directory>
    rake install start

You can find an introductory tutorial at https://github.com/ruboto/ruboto/wiki

If you have any problems or questions, come see us at http://ruboto.org/

Enjoy!


--
The Ruboto Team
http://ruboto.org/
