---
title : Ruboto 0.11.0
layout: post
---
Subject: [ANN] Ruboto 0.11.0 released!

The Ruboto team is pleased to announce the release of Ruboto 0.11.0.

Ruboto (JRuby on Android) is a platform for developing full stand-alone apps for
Android using the Ruby language and libraries.  It includes support libraries
and generators for creating projects, classes, tests, and more.  The complete
APIs of Android, Java, and Ruby are available to you using the Ruby language.

New in version 0.11.0:

In this release we add support for running in Ruby 2.0 mode and
set the default application target to Android 2.3 api level 10.
We have also started support for the Gosu game platform.

Features:

* Issue #134 Revert specification of included/excluded packages in ruboto.yml
* Issue #336 Set default target to Android 2.3 api level 10
* Issue #359 Load scripts in thread with large stack
* Issue #368 Add support for running in Ruby 2.0 mode
* Issue #380 Create and start an emulator suitable for the project
* Issue #387 Add exception logging to threads started with with_large_stack()

Bugfixes:

* Issue #358 Error: rake aborted!
* Issue #373 Bundler: undefined method 'silence'
* Issue #388 onReceive call could result in infinite recursion

Support:

* Issue #344 it takes too much time for an app to initialize
* Issue #361 generate application with jruby
* Issue #369 Ruboto.Rake Invalid for Windows
* Issue #370 After I create Gemfile.apk, does not make the rake
* Issue #371 application to the emulator does not start
* Issue #375 Require Crashes with StackOverflowError and Stack Level Too Deep
* Issue #376 Instance variables are unexpectedly nil
* Issue #377 Out of memory creating images in gosu
* Issue #378 Shrinking the Ruboto Core
* Issue #379 Access Ruboto::R Assets Dynamically
* Issue #381 "Install Ruboto Core" when using LunarLander activity
* Issue #384 ViewInflator Example

Documentation:

* Issue #188 Make the SQLite + ActiveRecord tutorial work with ActiveRecord 3.2.x
* Issue #351 Add an example of using Android system databases
* Issue #353 Write Gosu game tutorial

Pull requests:

* Issue #390 Scale Logo to 667x500
* Issue #391 Updated SVG logo to be 4:3; generated PNG for 0.11 release
* Issue #393 update rvm link

You can find a complete list of issues here:

* https://github.com/ruboto/ruboto/issues?state=closed&milestone=22


Installation:

To use Ruboto, you need to install a Java JDK, the Android SDK, Apache ANT, and a Ruby implementation.  Then do (possibly as root)

    gem install ruboto


To create a project do

    ruboto gen app --package <your.package.name>


You can find an introductory tutorial at https://github.com/ruboto/ruboto/wiki

If you have any problems or questions, come see us at http://ruboto.org/

Enjoy!


--
The Ruboto Team
http://ruboto.org/
